So we're talking now with Brian Lamb.
While we just talk about, you mentioned the proceeds.
Well, the reason that, I mean, first of all, I never got into this because I wanted to make money off this.
I'm nicely compensated by the board of directors.
These stories are so interesting, and it helps further the whole discussion of books.
that rather than have people say well what's he doing out hawking a book for we just said let's put all everything every possible proceeds will go into our season educational foundation and then the authors will feel better about it 120 authors won't feel like we're using their materials and so uh it worked it worked very well and it feels good because there's so much in our society that so many people just that's all that matters and that we try to set an example in our little ways
Let me tell you that, you know, I'm in my 50s, 54, and this past New Year's Day, for the first time in memory, I didn't watch a single football game.
The whole day watching what you did on Seasband, and taped it all, by the way, 24 hours worth of tape, of books, books.
I think there's a place, by the way, in this new book, because I'm writing about book culture, the phrase in book culture is part of the subtitle of this new book.
And I want to get to that, but certainly the primary interest is this book of interviews, but you certainly have an attitude about books and book culture in America today.
And you've gone from book notes now to about books.
Maybe that's something ahead of the story.
No, that's an important part of the story.
I think is...
As the years developed, and Book Notes is a little over eight years old, I just kept seeing that this book culture is huge, and television was basically ignoring it except for these humongous bestsellers.
And so we were trying to figure out a way to distinguish C-SPAN 2 from C-SPAN 1 and give people regular viewing of something that has substance to it.
And all of a sudden it just came more and more visible that there's a lot to talk about.
It's a $20 billion industry, something like $4 billion of loans, money spent on Christian books.
I mean, it's mind-boggling.
And there's all kinds of biases and prejudices in the regular media about Christian books.
So we thought maybe this is a chance for us to do a little bit on that.
But the Christian books may have anything to do with why we do it about books.
But now it's regular, and it's the same principle we've applied to everything else in C-SPAN, and that is covering authors and being themselves in a bookstore environment or a lecture series or whatever, and then supplemented with an interview every night on Saturday and Sunday with somebody in the book business.
Well, this is what I like about it.
It's quite just about this.
Because authors are just one aspect of this whole, you've done libraries, you've been up to the Athenaeum, you've been up to Powell's Books.
You've been to the Strand, one of my favorite places.
You go wherever this whole, you've done independent books.
You do the best sellers when they're perfect.
But you really, you look at the authors in this book.
There are a lot of authors in this book that no one's ever heard of, which is great.
And not no one.
The mass market has them.
And they did great works, but for whatever reason, it didn't click.
And hopefully they made enough money to make it all worth their while.
And even if they didn't, they produced something that's of value.
That's of value.
It all started with Neil Sheehan, I guess.
It all started years ago in 88 with Neil Sheehan.
We're about the same age.
The Vietnam War looms heavy in our lives, and Neil Sheehan was rumored to be finishing this book for about 15 years.
And as we got closer to it, one day I remember picking up some document somewhere where somebody had an early run on the book.
And I remember saying,
this man's work can't be dealt with in a six-minute interview on the station.
And that really was how the whole thing started.
I said, let's call him up and ask him if he'll sit with us for a couple of hours, and we can talk about this book from start to finish.
He did it.
We made five 30-minute programs.
We ran them 8 o'clock every night.
And that was really the start of that we have something here that's unique.
Did you get a response that emboldened you to consider going like, hey,
The vital signs, I know when I write a column that appears in 22 newspapers, I love to read it.
I mean, I'm listed in the telephone book.
I let people know what my email address is.
I want to hear from people.
You do the same thing.
The fifth night, he agreed to come to the studio and take calls.
That's when we really knew we had something.
Because the intensity of the calls, the scope of knowledge, was so significant.
That's when you really find out how many Americans there are that really are thinking for a living.
I don't know where you get the statistic, but I'd love to use it in my new book as a matter of fact.
Half of the books that are bought are never read.
Well, that came from an old friend of mine, a fellow by the name of Bob Gorowski, who used to be an NBC correspondent.
He's now dead.
Robert Gorowski.
Yeah, he's a great guy.
And he was, every day was always...
He was a Pentagon correspondent.
I remember I'd go see him.
I was in the Pentagon as a Navy officer.
And I would go see him every day, and every day he would have read the New York Times book review.
It was part of his pattern.
And he would talk about the different books.
And then he started to write books himself.
And one of the things that he did when he went out to speak was tell people that he had a statistic that he got from the American booksellers, and that was, and I think it's changed a bit since then, but 75% of all the books were sold between October and December 25th.
It's basically, you have the right statistic, it's 40%.
And that half the books, they're sold or never read.
And that's probably from, it's an old survey, but I think just from my own experience, people get a gift, put it on the shelf, say thank you very much, and they never go back.
Not just gifts, books that people buy for themselves.
I didn't really have this Dr. Bernard Long who won the Nobel Prize positions against nuclear war.
And he, like myself, he has set up a database for every book in his library.
And one thing he did from the very beginning, as he was entering it in the database, he put down a quote if they'd read it or not.
You know, he's got maybe 5,000 books.
He said, well, guess what?
who's credited with inventing the heart.
We're not talking about some casual reader.
He's at 17%.
Is that right?
17% of the books I own, I can say it with perfect honesty.
Honestly, I've read through from cover to cover.
You know, you have 5,000 books.
I mean, I have maybe 10,000.
I don't know.
I have no idea how many books I own.
That's in the world I've read all of them.
But I know what I have, I know where they are, and I know how they can help me when I need them.
That's what Winston Churchill said is remarkable.
Instead of just an accumulation, is that you know what you have, you know where it is, and you know how it can help you when you need it.
Most books you pick up are not compelling enough to finish.
That's my experience.
They have, and I've often said that a lot of books have, like,
Some of the bad hamburgers, a lot of cereal in them.
They're filler.
And people say, well, we're going to have, how about a 350-page book?
When actually I have a 150-page book that's dynamite.
And so they fill it.
They fill it with a lot of extraneous matters, especially the worst at this, by far, are people who spend time in government, especially former secretaries of state.
University press books have many.
I mean, a 1,000-page book really ever, ever has enough compelling material.
The book for you, Ben Kramer's book, I just think that's a book that really maybe 2% of the people that have it have thought it would be good.
Extraordinary book, though, for politics.
You know what the great mistake was there?
And he did this, he did this perfectly, he left out an index.
You know, anyone's fiction book without an index rules.
We had an interesting experience on the R-index for this book.
It was expensive, as you know.
And they got down to the end, and we were having space discussions and all this stuff.
And in this book, Random House took a long time to make up their mind on whether to put these car photos in there.
Well, in the end, I said, look...
It's that important to us that this book have quality to it.
So we just took some of our advance and put it right back into the color photos.
And then when the index came up, they said, that's going to cost you a grand.
And we said, put it in.
And it was because, as you say, it almost delegitimizes a book when you don't have an index.
It's kind of a crazy thing.
And it's not really, it's not the greatest index I've ever seen.
But this is kind of a book, really, where the interviews are compact.
You go to the author.
You should be able to read the author in five or ten minutes.
You should be able to find what you're looking for with the author.
You should be able to.
Although, one of the things, Nick, and I'm sure you've picked up on it, that we've done with this, which I think is new, is, and this will be interesting to you, is that we've developed a website called www.booknotes.org.
And all 423 transcripts are on that website, the full transcripts.
plus 150 photographs that are an extension of what we have on there right now and one of the things i'm doing i got a camera with me as i go around i'm taking pictures of people that i'm talking to and we're going to put some of those on the website we want people to have a full experience you can get some video clips and some audio clips you can get the music for book notes the albioni uh concerto we have on there and the idea is to
kind of go into cyberspace without losing the value of a beautiful book that can be bought in a bookstore.
You mentioned a terrific introduction, by the way.
It really does answer everything about the program without asking you questions that you've already answered.
You are as interested in the how in this program as you are of the what?
You wouldn't really describe this.
Would you describe this as a hard news interview?
No, absolutely not.
Sometimes hard news is made just because people say the darndest things at the darndest moments.
It's meant to be not a soft interview, but it's meant to be an opportunity for the author
to speak in their voice at a pace that's conversational.
I love it.
That simple.
I mean, there's no more complicated matter.
And sometimes we get a really good interview and sometimes it's okay.
It's really bad, but once in a while you'll have somebody who just can't talk a book.
And as you know, you've got great authors that don't talk well and great talkers that don't write well.
And one of the sad moments, it doesn't happen very often, is when you have a bad book and the author's a great talker.
So it kind of throws out a vibe that not only is this, you know, am I a great interview, but this is a great book and it's not a great book.
But then you should kind of, you should hope to control that on your end before you bring the author out.
In some regards, though, we don't even try to do that.
We don't make a judgment that this is a great book to go on book notes.
We make a judgment that this is a book we're talking about, and the author is worth hearing from.
And you can then go to the store and make up your own mind based on all the little vibes you get in an interview.
And you do post, for those who are computer literate.
It gives the publisher access to the first child of the collection, but go take a look at it.
Yeah.
books you really do have an opportunity to take a look at before you buy it.
Have there, we mentioned hard news, have there been any real surprises for you?
Have you been sitting where the author has really given you something that you totally didn't, that surprised you?
A savvy man who works in Washington in the public, who sees just about everything of significance and goes on in the public.
What is surprised you in the program?
The biggest surprise is in retrospect,
And there is, and no one, I mean, we didn't try real hard, but no one picked up on this, but in the section on leaders, the Bob Dole, and if you haven't seen this, if you go to page 330, here's what Bob Dole said in 1990.
Now remember, in 1990, he was the majority leader in the Senate.
Actually, it might have been the minority.
92, he didn't run.
That was, I think he ran in 88.
He didn't run in 92.
That was George Bush's time.
And then he ran in 96.
But in 1990, Bob Dole said, I don't think I would run for president.
i think probably age is a factor tonight i feel young but you have got to look at the calendar but it would be a long long shot so i would probably not i've enjoyed running for the senate serving in the senate serving in the house we thought we had a pretty good shot in 88 didn't work out we did our best so we'll move on to something else and in retrospect it really kind of said everything that we saw in 1996
You know, as much as he tried, he never was fully engaged.
And it was largely as a result of a very lackluster thing.
It's Michael Lewis.
I just did an interview with him.
You know, this book about trail sherbet.
And he said, you know, it was kind of funny.
He said, the only way you could write a book about this campaign is to really not write about it if you get by drift.
You know, make something else a focus of attention.
And this was boring.
And that's what 49% of the people didn't vote.
But, you know, there's nothing written in the Constitution that says every campaign is going to be exciting.
That's right.
And there are times in our history where the president is the president because he's the president.
And you can't, no matter how much analysis you do, it wouldn't have made any difference.
Bob O'Connor won unless the whole world had changed.
I like the divisions that you have, reporters, storytellers.
Tell me about.
I think it's really important to point out this is 120, it is 120 very interesting interviews, but there does seem to be a narrative pressed to it.
There does seem to be a shape to it.
This is a book that had a lot of people's involvement that mattered.
And what I'm about to say is not lip service to people.
They really mattered.
I've had the rare experience of being able to interview everybody.
So I sit down and just ask the simple question.
Along the way, we've had a number of producers of the program who have been keen and alert.
For instance, Sarah Traherne, who's long gone from us, she works for the Nashville Network now, she was responsible for bringing in guys like Doug Brinkley, who wrote about the Magic Bus, and who we turned into our own public relations educational vehicle, our two big, huge, yellow school buses.
There's a picture of Doug in the book.
So if Sarah hadn't pushed, pushed, pushed for this book about the Magic Bus, we probably would have never done it.
And more importantly, when we got to the Random House Times Brooksby, Jeff Chandler, who's a young, late 20s,
came to us with a lot of very good ideas, very quiet guy.
We sat down and the thrust of what we were going to do with this book was entirely different than what it came up with in the end.
We thought we were going to go categories of ideas, Vietnam, maybe talk about historians, maybe talk about presidents, in another section talk about journalism.
And the more we got to it, we realized the most interesting stories were about writing.
And it might not appeal to everybody, but they were so interesting.
The difficulty with it, or the ease, or how you wrote, where you wrote.
And Jeff helped us very much focus on the different kinds of categories we had.
Robin Scullin, who's pictured in the book with the president at the taping that we had, she labored hours and hours and hours by just going into the different transcripts and pulling out only those sections on writing.
A lot of very good authors that appeared on book notes didn't make it to the book because they didn't say anything about writing.
and so robin had that job of getting all the words on writing and then i would sit down with her and we would go over line by line and take out what we thought was irrelevant jeff would come back in the picture i think we had three line uh
edits, three full line edits that Jeff participated in.
I participated in two of them.
Then another very important part of this was Susan Swain, who you may see on the network.
She hosts some of the programs, and she's also a co-chief operating officer.
She's a very good writer.
Susan came into the process and took her kind of detached view and came back in and said, you know, what she saw was relevant, not relevant, and helped a lot on things like the introduction, the acknowledgments, which we talked about, because she's really good at it.
And so this was a cooperative effort.
Random House Unlimited say that.
They say, when you go out there on the hustings, just tell everybody you're the author.
Well, everything about book notes, everything about C-SPAN is a collective experience.
No one human being makes that big a difference.
And it's the same thing with this book.
This book is not only all the people I name, it's the 120 authors.
Because if we didn't have those wonderful stories, if people were willing to give, we wouldn't have a book.
The work, I have the greatest respect for editors, though.
And...
You have really shaped something here that's really quite... I would call this a synergistic book where the sum is really greater than the parts.
I agree with that.
I mean, it's easy for me to sell this book because earlier I would say I'm not taking any money.
And secondly, these are great authors.
It's just really easy to say to people, go get this.
If you have any interest at all in the written word, you will love this book.
It sucks.
From what I can see, you do have a philosophy of interviewing, and you've touched on it a little bit.
I mean, it's not one of these phobings, I mean, there is a phobing in your own way, but it's not one of these ambush kinds of things where you ask these confrontational questions.
You must have a guiding attitude.
Well, I suffer from having watched a lot of television, and...
I'm just like a lot of people I know that sit out there and watch television interviews and say to the interviewer, shut up.
Get out of the way.
You are bothering me.
I want to hear that author.
And they don't all do that, but we probably bend over backwards going the other way, saying the focus of this interview tonight, I say this in my head every time I sit down, is Nick Fassbaines.
It's David Houserstein.
I want to hear their story.
And we don't have to worry about creating personalities.
We don't sell personalities.
I'm not a personality.
And I learned everything I know about this business from four men that are dedicated, that books dedicated to in the beginning.
And their little philosophies are right there.
And I felt very much that I reflect what they taught me in a small town in Indiana, Lafayette, Indiana, where I grew up, went to school at Purdue.
And these four men, Bill Quacer, Henry Rosenthal, C.J.
Hopkins, and Dick Shywick, had an enormous impact on them.
C.J.
Hopkins, deceased 20 years, was my journalism teacher in high school.
He just literally said, if you want to go into journalism, you got about five or six questions to ask all the time, and the rest will do its work for you.
Who, what, why, where, when, and how.
And I don't know about you, but every time I interview somebody, if I stick to those questions, they're open-ended questions that gives the author a chance to say what they want to say, and you can't miss.
And if you miss...
So what?
That's right.
You're just not going to miss because you're asking the essential questions.
Who are you?
What's the book?
I mean, it almost sounds like I'm too basic, but I can't tell you how many people...
I've given 40 talks since the book came out all over the country.
Universities, libraries, Library of Congress, which you take and talk about books.
Inevitably, somebody will ask, you know, I saw you on C-SPAN, and then they'll want to know about Brian Lamb.
And I say, honestly, I'll say, well, you're the finest interviewer I've ever had the privilege to talk to you.
People say, well, gee, he doesn't talk that much.
I say, well, you're on the track here.
He's giving me the greatest gift I could possibly give, and he's allowing me to have an hour.
Because he's not bringing his ego into the studio.
And plus he is shaping.
He is shaping.
Grace, you asked the first question.
But you also allow me the time to answer.
Where my mind works in one of those programs is I picture someone who has a lot of respect for information and authors sitting out there with the clicker.
And I can just kind of mentally...
feel at some point where they're just about ready to leave us.
And what you want to do at that point is maybe just change the subject a little bit.
If Nick Vassbaines is telling a long story, and we've kind of gotten the essence of it, and he's being himself and doing as best he can, he doesn't realize that it may be a little long.
So I'll then throw in the question, where'd you grow up?
How many kids do you have?
What do they do?
What's your wife do?
I mean, who influenced you?
And then all of a sudden, if somebody's ready to go, say, well, wait a minute, I want to know where this guy's coming from.
So I'll tell you a great story with a book.
It has to be a book note story about somebody who saw me on book notes and told me the next morning.
And it's been Falls of Haven or More story.
which we discussed on the program, At No More.
Oh, you're right.
The mystery man of the book.
Great, great story.
We'll get to that.
What's your time?
I'm okay.
Take your time.
We talked about surprises.
You mentioned the Bob Dole ones.
That's a great story.
Of course, at that time, you had no idea that that was going to be such a...
newsworthy item in retrospect, I guess.
There's a silly but funny moment that we write about in the introduction, and that's Forrest McDonald when I asked him, you know, where does he write and how does he write, and he said he writes in the nude.
And I remember when he said, I said, you write in the nude?
You know, it was just like, where did this come from?
And then he described himself as living 12 miles outside of, in Alabama, outside of one of the major cities down there, and that he lives in the country, and he and his wife live out there, and when he writes, he just takes his clothes off and goes out on the porch and takes his yellow pad and starts writing.
Knowing him, very little, but knowing him, he's a character, and I suspect there's just a bit of an embellishment there.
But we have his picture in the book, but his clothes aren't.
But there are a lot of moments over the years that don't, they don't scream headlines.
They just scream insight.
I'm listening, I'm just... I'm sorry.
...about books, talk about surprises.
And this sounds so...
It's not so obvious, but I didn't even do a Hermione leading this British woman who just did a new biography of Virginia Woolf.
I'm very interested in Woolf.
She was interested in great readers, by the way.
She never was educated normally.
Everything she was was a consequence of her reading.
George Bernard Shaw said, you know, everything he knew he learned from the British Library.
But anyway, when I was doing an interview with her at the end, she had just arrived here in Boston from Great Britain.
She said, I've been told that American interviewers don't read the books.
She said, what a pleasant surprise.
I said, well, I think maybe you don't.
That's a long way of getting into the fact that you do prepare yourself for reading it.
You just read the book.
You read the book.
I just read the book.
No questions are prepared and no researcher does any work.
You just read the book.
We take the attitude that this interview should be able to be pulled out 20 years from now.
just like a book, and stand on its own.
And that you better learn something about the individual, their background, why they got into it, then how they put the book together, and what is in the book.
Not everything.
You want to tease people enough to go out and buy the book.
They want it.
Because you don't want to ruin it for an author.
Authors go around and do these interviews.
You don't want to give up the whole thing.
Remember you said, I think that that was the first time that you would ask some of your questions and I refused to answer it.
Yes.
Which is a good idea.
I said, hey, it took me three and a half years to get the answer to that.
You don't have to answer a question, by the way, to make it a good interview.
But you do have to answer a lot of interesting background information.
So people say, well, that guy's substantial enough.
I'm going to go buy the book.
I will tell you the haven of more story.
the first time my interview was broadcast was in october of 95 and there was broadcast again big christmas it was a pretty popular it was popular it was december 29th and it was friday night the next morning i got a telephone call from a lawyer in the midwest kansas and he said mr basbane he said i was surfing with the
to television last night looking for the Kansas football game, and he came upon the C-SPAN interview, and just like you say, he flies for a while, and he heard the name, he said, Cavan O'Moore, and I corrected him, it's Haven.
He said, wait a minute, I know this guy.
Turns out this guy is a lawyer, and he said, do you know about the case involved in Haven O'Moore that took place out here in Kansas?
I don't need this update.
You read, obviously.
Do you read much for pleasure these days, or do you read mainly now for work?
Once in a while, but frankly, I'm not a fast reader, so I have to stay at the book notes book every week, all the time, because my days are long.
I have 12-hour days, and so I have to read it early in the morning, late at night, or weekends.
And I read newspapers for pleasure.
There's an awful lot of information in some good newspapers.
In Washington, we have four or five really good newspapers to read.
None of us have enough time to read as much as we like to.
Do you read any fiction?
No.
I read fiction when I was in college because it was part of the classics that I had to read.
I read a book that had a tremendous impact on me because it was so much fun, and that was Bonfire of the Vanities.
It turned out to be...
accurate about five years in advance.
It is the book of the 1980s, the novel of the 1980s.
But I'm not drawn to fiction because there's so many great stories in nonfiction.
You just don't happen to be that interested in it.
And a lot of people ask me why we don't do fiction.
It's about books we do from time to time because it's political fiction.
And that does allow you unabove books to kind of cover areas that you don't.
absolutely i mean it does absolutely gives you the opportunity to do things and it also enables you to answer people and say well gee you know do this on book notes but yeah they're doing a lot about books and we can't get to even you know 100 to the authors and that's also a chance for us to do offers that we can't get to for book notes because sometimes it just doesn't work out timing doesn't work out
But the ambiance is nice.
You do kind of go out into the field, you go into bookstores, you go into libraries, you go to places, you go to panels, you go to conferences and things, and so the viewer does get a sense of the ambiance.
to do those harry evans breakfasts yes uh which can be kind of you know eccentric to be sure but lots of fun and harry evans has a rather important post in publishing and then usually uh i can't think of you know i think we have lots of stuff here do you need a look anywhere by no i don't but don't go away i want to take a picture right there i'm trying to capture
I got my hook tie on here.
I'm back home.
Right next week's call.
I'll tell you.
Largely...
Basically, I would say where your program is.
I mean, mainly university towns.
Really?
That was my concept.
What's your biggest goal?
Oh, I'm in Madison, Wisconsin State Journal in Austin.
I'm in Salt Lake City.
And I did this myself.
I have two cards.
I'll give you my cards.
It's great.
This is my regular order.
Next, I'll give you my email on it.
what i did was nice thing about that those are capital cities that's that was the whole idea that's i made what i did is i made literary future syndicate that's my and i made myself to manage and so what i do is and this exists to sell my column every week it's a weekly column of about a thousand words which is long and then that's just my way to get it out there which you know just my name
Did I send you the piece that the boss did on me last year?
Because I think it was the one I had a picture of you.
Yeah, it was a nice picture, yeah.
And what happened, I desperately wanted to get up and take your picture.
I desperately wanted to do it.
My wife is really, she says, you still cast a picture in the California.
Oh, what a story I got out of California.
I mean, you talked about, this is going to be in the news.
This is a guy by the name of Lloyd Hootson, C-O-T-S-E-O.
He recently sold the Eucatina company for a billion dollars.
And he is now putting together the world's, he's put together the world's finest collection of children's books.
Now, he's giving it all to Princeton with a building and with perhaps 50 million dollars to set it up.
But there's a catch.
And the catch, you get the catch out of my book, The Gentle Madness.
And the peep story?
to bring in the minority community, and this is Princeton, which is about, you know, the populist of Ivy League schools, which are having 50,000 kids coming in from Newark and Charlton and all over the year to interact with the folks.
They don't want to do that.
He told them, if you don't do it within two years,
Everything comes and goes out to UCLA.
But what makes the story so spectacular, because I also want to write about literacy, but better than write about literacy than a person who is committing and feeding all his children into reading, into the future.
And now, if you're a journalist, you walk into this home that he has in Los Angeles,
I was already given everything over to Princeton.
And you walk in and there are 150 goers' arts all over the house, 400 years old, 500 years old, really artworks.
And I said, let's put the goers out.
I knew the background.
The kicker is, in 1978 and 1979, and I'm the only person here to talk to you about this.
His son and his wife were murdered brutally, had someone who was stalking him.
This was some guy from Belgium who had come here, killed some people in Canada, came down to L.A.
trying to find him, couldn't find him, and just a horrible, horrible story.
And so what he's doing now, of course, and the boy's name is Noah.
I think this story in the new book is as great as the Bloomberg story or the Moore story.
And what he's doing, he's driven to do something.
The children and the reading.
And I spent two days with him, and he's never talked to anybody about this.
And he's only talked in general terms about the world.
And that's, you know, what I respect.
How old is it?
He's 70 right now.
And he's, when I was signing books in L.A., I signed 450 books.
This is when the gentleman read.
This is amazing.
And this tall, good-looking guy comes up.
He said, Mr. Basman, Lloyd Coatsen.
And I stood up.
I said, Mr. Coatsen, and I could pass to talk to him for Gentle Madness.
He did fine.
He said, my friends tell me they can't believe I had a chance to be in Gentle Madness, and I turned it down.
And I said, well, guess what?
You've got another chance.
I said, I'm working on another book that I think is even going to be more important, because...
You know, the threshold in the last book, there were two.
Good stories and collecting, right?
Now, of course, collecting is, that's here.
Now, I'm going to have collectors in the new book, but they have to be somebody like Kochi, who's doing the collecting to promote literacy, to create a great library, to help people.
So that's how the collectors, if there are collectors in the new book, that's how they all get in.
This guy over at Harvard traveling the world to get every copy of Copernicus.
You know, there's a 200-year, talking about bibliography, the Vatican Library in Rome is embarked on a 200-year program to do a complete bibliography of the works of St.
Thomas Aquinas.
That's how long it takes.
Imagine committing yourself 100 years.
That'll be done sometime in the year 21, but they've already been doing it for 40 or 50 years.
Why?
Why 200 years on one?
You know, we measure things.
Computers are never going to replace that.
There's always going to be a... By the way, I know you don't go for it.
Can you describe this book?
Sure.
Before I forget here.
I think I got to use this one.
Okay.
Is that what you use when you do it?
My wife gave me that to us.
She kind of gave it to us, say, Boston.
And what I'll do now, by the way, is I'll call Random House when I get back.
And what I need is 25 pictures of you, publicity pictures.
Do you like Nick or Nick with that?
Nick is fine.
I like both.
Formality is Nicholas, my friend, because I like Nick.
Yeah, well, so Mike, let's see, the papers that I have are Salt Lake City.
The concept was, by the way, it's very similar to your book notes concept, is that if my newspaper in Worcester had decided that they could no longer afford the luxury of a book editor, but they still have people who like to read about books and don't want the crap that comes in off the wires, then there must be lots of cities all over the country that feel the same way.
And what I did then is determine where are you going to find the readers?
In capital cities and in university towns.
And these are also cities where they don't have access to the authors.
And I get access to all the authors.
They all come through here.
The ones that don't go here, I go to New York to do.
So I started pitching myself and dissecting my poems, which speak for themselves.
They're wonderful.
I mean, they are.
They're good.
So doing this by myself, I'm in Salt Lake City, Eugene, Oregon.
Eugene, Oregon.
University of Oregon.
I'm in Charlottesville, University of Virginia.
I'm in Gainesville, University of Florida.
I'm in Jackson, Mississippi, which is the paper in all of Mississippi.
I'm in the three villes, Gainesville, Charlottesville, and Knoxville.
I'm in Knoxville.
I'm in Grand Rapids.
I'm in Toledo.
This is every week.
I'm in Columbus.
I'm in Madison.
I'm in Austin.
You're Captain.
Everywhere I go.
I'm in Wichita, Barbell Country.
That's a Wichita Eagle.
I anchor the page.
Basically, everywhere I go, I anchor the page.
And of course, they all say, well, we can't take long stories.
Everybody I write for it, I do a 1,000-word story.
900 words.
That's 30 inches.
They run it.
But these people, and they love to read the story.
They love to read about my life.
They love to read about Donald's fault at court.
They want to read about...
I really stay away from the best sellers.
What was your philosophy as you went about signing?
Did you write messages?
It's funny because they were taking bets, the booksellers, out in L.A.
It was a line 100 yards long.
When I signed in Washington, we signed 200 books.
That's where I started.
In fact, the weekend we did
that interview i was signing that weekend and they were lined up 100 yeah 12. and i would say geez i'm sorry and they said just do what you're doing because i would ask everybody what they do what do they collect and i would write
a personal thing with so-and-so.
I was a former naval officer.
Oh, I'm a former naval officer.
Somebody's from New England.
I've mentioned something from New England.
He's a physician who collects books on medicine or geology.
I've mentioned that in the inscription.
And so I've kind of become...
pretty well known for my inscriptions.
But of course these take time, and the lines would be long.
I would say, do you want me to speed it up?
They'd say, no, no, just take your time.
They could see what I was doing with them.
And then when I got out to San Francisco last fall, the ABAA, the Antiquarian Booksellers, had bought 1,000 first editions of my book.
the book is now going for 125 bucks so they had and they sold them all except there were 50 left there were 50 left in san francisco so they said the last 50 were selling for 100 bucks a piece with the proceeds to go to their benevolent point i mean i'm not profiting from this you know zero i just got my regular loyalty and then they also have the fifth printing there
So what do you think sold out?
Not the fifth printing at 35 bucks a whack.
The first printing was at 100 bucks a whack.
Sold them out like that.
So you're in your fifth printing?
I'm in my sixth.
Sixth.
how many did they do each time uh this last one was pretty big uh every one was larger than the earlier first one was 6400 so they're always 6400 the next one was like 7 000 the next one was smaller the second printing they said well maybe it's a fluke and then that was gone in a week we had three printings within the first month of publication and then the fourth was huge
And then the fifth was larger, and then the sixth was about $20,000.
And that's going to be around for a while, because sales have trickled now.
They say we're moving between $100 and $200 a month now, which is still not bad.
Going up to Christmas, we were moving 500 a month.
And there's only been two ads from the day the book came out.
One in the New York Times, one in the New York News.
Everything else has been good press.
Bookshallers love it.
Hasn't been a bad review anywhere, and good reviews.
Dierta gave it a full-page review.
You should get Michael on your show.
He's the book critic for the Washington Post.
Very.
Pulitzer Prize winner, he's a critic.
Very, very knowledgeable.
I don't know if you can get our book notes.
That's an author thing, but about books.
We don't want to interfere with this process right now.
I'll move this right out there.
So I get 22 papers, total circulation of three and a half million.
You'll be one of the early reviews.
And again, it's a combination review with reviews.
So that way I can
Plus, they read.
They know me.
My readers know me.
And I think your viewers know you.
And when I ask you what you read, well, they know that.
We're not going to go to your program to see, you know, whomever.
Sarah Koretsky, you know, Daniel.
So you have to come to see her, Daniel.
Although I will every once in a while.
I'll do a bear this summer.
I think there's a good story, you know.
Robert B. Parker, because I like Bob Parker, he's an interesting guy.
George Higgins, friends of Eddie Coyle, and you can talk about what it's like to have your first book be the friends of Eddie Coyle, and then nobody can name the next 20 after that.
And then he'll say something, well, I wanted to know, didn't great Joe Heller to have his first book be X-22.
I can live with that.
So that makes it a good story.
It'd be interesting to know what a lot of authors who have a success and never come back do with their lives.
Because you keep thinking, I mean, what does J.D.
Sollinger do in his life?
What has he done over?
Well, I think he's terrified of it.
I've thought about that myself.
Harper Lee is alive and apparently well.
And she wrote that one book, Phil Mockingbird.
That's it.
Margaret Mitchell wrote From Here to Eternity.
Never another book.
The guy who killed himself wrote Raintree County.
I mean, you know, who knows?
That was the only book he wrote.
I have to believe that there's... I'm not intimidated by it at all.
I'm not either, but I... Of course I know, because I've talked to authors.
And they'll tell you, you know, when you've had such a tremendous success the first time out, you find it intimidating to do it, to do the next one.
And a lot of them say, yeah.
for myself, but my success is modest.
I mean, it's certainly not sales compared to anybody else, other people, but, you know, in its own field, it's respected, and then it's respected.
That's the great part.
You point that out, I believe, in here, that it's when your peers
This is another book I'm just reading, Two-Bit Culture.
Have you ever read that book?
1984, it's about the paperbacking of America.
Very, very interesting book.
It's called Two-Bit Culture, 1984, by a guy named Kenneth.
I was reading it for research on this new book.
And that's how the paperback changed.
And the best-selling book in American history
after the bible if i were to ask you what do you suppose it is yes anytime yeah well it's paper it's obviously a paperback and well it's dr spock's book on child and baby care 1949 and i don't know this in 1984 was like 50 million copies god knows what it is now one of the reasons it was successful
there have been other books on babies, is because it had the immediate respect and admiration of his peers of other medical people.
They liked it.
They recommended it.
And I look at it in a microcosmic way.
One of the things that's helped my book along is that everybody in the library, everybody in the professional communities
No, I think Spock made $50 million.
Say what?
I think he made $50 million.
No, it's very funny.
He said in the years of product Spock, when he was making, when he was selling a million copies a year, he was only making $5,000 a year.
He acted as, he was only getting a half a penny for a book.
It was finally when he signed his contracts for the books that followed that he started to make some money on the book.
But, you know, his paper, we don't forget, they were selling it for 25 cents a lot.
His royalty was one cap a penny.
So if they sold a million, it was like five bucks.
That's all he made.
So he didn't really make a fortune on it.
But he was a gold medalist in the Olympics.
And it was very interesting.
So this book was called Two-Bit Culture.
It's very interesting.
There are parallels.
The paperback is only 60 years old.
It has a mass market item.
1939 is when it came out.
You know, things have changed.
People get their culture, I guess, and tourism.
Yeah, there's a big change, but there's still awful lot of things being sold.
That's right, that's right.
Of course, when you think of paperbacks, they are absolutely made to be disposable.
They don't even send them back.
They don't send them back, and so you think in terms of preservation.
I've enjoyed this enormously.
Are you sure I can't give you a lift to go to the airport?
No, I'm over to Lennox.
I'm over to Lennox.
Okay.
I've got a car and I'm heading up north to Maine.
Oh, great.
Where do you go to Maine?
Friends of mine have a place up at Damascada.
Oh, that's nice.
I went to college up in Maine.
Bates.
Bowdoin was our one.
I've been to Bowdoin and I've been to Cobra.
I haven't been to Bates.
Well, two out of three.
Good schools.
So Bates is a great school.
Where's Bates?
It's in Lewiston, which is a forgettable city.
But the college is wonderful.
I guess Bowdoin is a little more towards this.
It's a great place to be going to.
If I don't let him go off the traffic, you are.
You should get going as soon as you can.
I was listening to the reports on the way in.
Especially, you've got to go up through the Hamptons Coles.
I'll get going as soon as I could if I were you.
You're leaving right now?
Yeah.
Do it.
Let's walk back in the hotel.
All right.
Here we go.
I'm doing parents next week.
Next week is that the one day for the week I come back, and then I'll do this when I come back.
And that way I'll have the photo.
Oh, no, thank you.
I'm not supposed to grab.
Oh, that's ridiculous.
Oh, okay.
That's just one collection out of, uh... The houses really grow under the... David Brooks.
because i collect book things too you know like old bookcases
I'm going to have a little bit more.
He's jealous.
Oh, my God.
The End
THE END
.
Thank you.
The End
THE END
Oh, God.
Oh.
The End